Documentation for Cypher SEARCH clause (#1459)
neo4j/docs-cypher: modules/ROOT/pages/clauses/search.adoc

// tag::clauses_search_property_predicate[]
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie {year: date('2013')})
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title
----
// end::clauses_property_predicate[]

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
|===
| title

| "Frozen"

1+|Rows: 2
|===

== Limitations of the SEARCH clause

The table below lists some past and current limitations of the SEARCH clause, which are likely to be lifted in a later Neo4j release.
If applicable, the version in which the limitation was lifted is also listed.

.Limitations of the SEARCH clause
[%header,cols="4a,d"]
|===
| Limitation | Lifted in

| Unlike in other index commands such as `CREATE VECTOR INDEX` and `DROP INDEX`, the index name is not allowed to be a parameter in the `VECTOR INDEX` subclause of `SEARCH`.
|

|The query vector is currently not allowed to reference the binding variable.
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR movie.embedding
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title
----

.Error message
[source, error]
----

> Vector search embeddings referencing the search variable

Author: While we still are in beta, we should align this error message and the docs terminology so we do not use
"query vector" and "binding variable" in one place and "embeddings" and "search variable" in the other to refer to the same concepts.

We already use "query vector" in the documentation of the old procedures, so I would like to stick with that, but I'm open for feedback on if "binding variable" or "search variable" is better.

Author: I will leave this as is for now because this is the error you get in 2026.01. Then I will update it in both the error manual, code base and Cypher manual for 2026.02 with a separate PR

- The optional `WHERE` subclause is used to do vector search with filters and is a restricted version of the normal Cypher xref::clauses/where.adoc[`WHERE` clause].
For more information, see xref::clauses/search.adoc#vector-search-filtering-predicates[Predicates for vector search with filters].

- The `limit` refers to the number of approximate nearest neighbor nodes or relationships to return from the `SEARCH` clause.
The `limit` must be of type `INTEGER NOT NULL` and in the interval `0 \<= limit \<= 2147483647` footnote:[2147483647 is the `Integer.MAX_VALUE` from Java].

- The optional `SCORE` subclause makes the `SEARCH` clause return the similarity score for each node or relationship in addition to the node or relationship itself.
In the result, the column for the similarity scores will be called `score_alias`.

- The `SEARCH` clause puts some restrictions on what pattern the enclosing `MATCH` or `OPTIONAL MATCH` clause is allowed to have.
For more information, see xref::clauses/search.adoc#limitations[Limitations of the `SEARCH` clause].

[[search-example-graph]]
== Example graph and vector index

The following graph is used for the examples below:

> // TODO insert an example svg graph

Author: I would like to have an svg image here for the example data, similar to the ones we have on other clause pages. Not sure how I go about creating one though

Reviewer: @lidiazuin i think that's something for our image library - can you help?
@Lojjs do you have a draft maybe? (bloom image or anything)

Reviewer: ![embeddings](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3ba568ba-b586-4992-9276-6ce6633efe4e)

thanks @lidiazuin 

here's the svg, with embeddings as the last property and in italics

Author: The preview of the svg looks good, thanks for the help. I get some permission error when I click on it though, so I am not able to download it. So could you upload it to the code base and link it where I have the TODO?

Reviewer: added it via dev (it won't show up in this PR because of that)
couldn't access your fork, but i think that is fine

Author: I think you have some copy-pasted text in that line you want to update, not sure if it will be visible for users or not

| `WHERE movie.rating <> 7.5`
|

|The xref:expressions/predicates/comparison-operators.adoc[comparison operator] in the predicate cannot be `IS NULL` or `IS NOT NULL`.
| `WHERE movie.rating IS NOT NULL`
| Neo4j 2026.02 // TODO check IS NULL

| The predicate cannot include other xref::expressions/predicates/boolean-operators.adoc[boolean operators] than `AND`.
| `WHERE NOT movie.rating > 8`
footnote:[`NOT` is allowed for boolean properties.
For example, given that `seen` has been added as an additional property for filtering when the vector index was created, `WHERE NOT movie.seen` is allowed and will be rewritten to `WHERE movie.seen = false` internally.]

`WHERE movie.rating > 8 OR movie.releaseYear \<= date("2000")`
|

| The predicate cannot include a xref::expressions/predicates/list-operators.adoc[list operator].
| `WHERE movie.rating IN [7, 7.5, 8]`
|

| The predicate cannot include a xref::expressions/predicates/string-operators.adoc[string operator].
| `WHERE movie.rating STARTS WITH '8'`
|

| The predicate cannot include a xref::expressions/predicates/type-predicate-expressions.adoc[type predicate expression].

> | `WHERE movie.rating IS :: FLOAT`

Author: This line is not rendering properly in the preview, I think the :: must be escaped in some way, but not sure how

Reviewer 2: I think you can do:

```suggestion
| `WHERE movie.rating IS +::+ FLOAT`
```

Author: Yes, that seems to do the trick, thanks!

:description: The `SEARCH` clause is a subclause of a `MATCH` or `OPTIONAL MATCH` clause and is used to filter the results based on vector similarity.
:table-caption!:
:page-role: new-neo4j-2026.01 cypher-25-only

[[query-search]]
= SEARCH

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.Preview Feature
[IMPORTANT]
====
The *vector search feature is offered AS-IS* as described in your agreement with Neo4j and should only be used for internal development purposes.
When this feature becomes generally available, you will need to upgrade to the latest Neo4j version (which may require downtime) to use the feature for non-development purposes.

Vector search is *enabled by default*, both in Aura and self-managed Neo4j.

During the Preview period, if you have any feedback, comments, or encounter any issues, we welcome them in our link:https://github.com/neo4j/neo4j/issues[public GitHub repository].
We will address them to the best of our ability.
Please include the term *Vector search* in the title of your issue so we can identify it more easily. +
Customers with active contracts may contact Neo4j Support through the standard support channels.
Please note that any cases related to the Preview feature will be classified as Severity 4 by default, in accordance with the link:https://neo4j.com/terms/support-terms/[Support Terms].
====

```

Reviewer: i copied this from graph types and edited it. a few things:
* is the "enabled by default" thing correct? (both aura/self-managed?)
* is the setting correct?
* is "vector search" as the title of issues the one we expect?

Author: - Enabled by default is correct in 2026.01, with the caveat that it is a Cypher 25 feature so if you are on Cypher 5, it is not available. Do you think we need to clarify this or is it implied because this is the Cypher 25 docs?
- The setting is called internal.dbms.vector_single_stage_filtering_enabled but I would like to ask our PM @mauvo whether we want to mention it in the docs or not
- We haven't discussed this but I think "Vector search" as a title issue makes sense yes

Reviewer: i think that's fine (@cypher 25)
small update to the suggestion
i'll leave this open until we know whether or not to include the setting

Reviewer 3: Let's not mention the setting, or hint that it can be disabled. 

I'm not aware of any reason why disabling it would be necessary. If that proves wrong, we can update the documentation later.

Reviewer: updated suggestion

> The `SEARCH` clause is not a clause in its own right -- rather, it is subclause used with xref:clauses/match.adoc[`MATCH`] and xref:clauses/optional-match.adoc[`OPTIONAL MATCH`] clauses to add constraints on their pattern based on vector similarity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `SEARCH` clause is not a clause in its own right -- rather, it is a subclause used with xref:clauses/match.adoc[`MATCH`] and xref:clauses/optional-match.adoc[`OPTIONAL MATCH`] clauses to add constraints on their pattern based on vector similarity.
```

> The `SEARCH` clause is not a clause in its own right -- rather, it is a subclause used with xref:clauses/match.adoc[`MATCH`] and xref:clauses/optional-match.adoc[`OPTIONAL MATCH`] clauses to add constraints on their pattern based on vector similarity.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `SEARCH` clause is not a clause in its own right -- rather, it is a subclause used within xref:clauses/match.adoc[`MATCH`] and xref:clauses/optional-match.adoc[`OPTIONAL MATCH`] clauses to add constraints on their pattern based on approximate nearest neighbor (ANN) vector search.
```

Reviewer 3: I think we can be less circumspect when talking about ANN vector search.

In order to use the `SEARCH` clause, you must first have xref::indexes/semantic-indexes/vector-indexes.adoc#create-vector-index[created a vector index].

== SEARCH clause syntax

The `SEARCH` clause has the following syntax
[source, syntax]
----

> SEARCH binding_variable IN (

Reviewer 3: I think we should include the MATCH in this syntax. Looking at other pages generally we include working fragments of Cypher. And it would be nice to have ab explicit example of usage at the top of the page.

  VECTOR INDEX index_name
  FOR query_vector
  [WHERE ...]

>   LIMIT limit

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  LIMIT top_k
```

) [SCORE AS score_alias]
----

> The `SEARCH` clause adds constraints to the pattern from the enclosing `MATCH` or `OPTIONAL MATCH`, by only returning nodes or relationships that have a `VECTOR` or `LIST<INTEGER NOT NULL | FLOAT NOT NULL>` property similar enough to the `query_vector`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `SEARCH` clause constrains the pattern from the enclosing `MATCH` or `OPTIONAL MATCH`, by only returning nodes or relationships, included in the results of the ANN vector search as described by the `SEARCH` clause.
```

Below follows a short description of the different parts of the syntax:

- The `binding_variable` must be a node or relationship variable from the pattern of the enclosing `MATCH` or `OPTIONAL MATCH` clause.

> - The `index_name` must be an identifier which match the name of an existing vector index in the Neo4j database.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The `index_name` must be an identifier that matches the name of an existing vector index in the Neo4j database.
```

> - The `index_name` must be an identifier which match the name of an existing vector index in the Neo4j database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `index_name` must be an identifier which matches the name of an existing vector index in the Neo4j database.
```

The vector index must be a node vector index if the `binding_variable` refers to a node and a relationship vector index if the `binding_variable` refers to a relationship.

> - The `query_vector` can be any expression, like for example a literal, a parameter or a property from the graph, which evaluates to a `VECTOR` or `LIST<INTEGER NOT NULL | FLOAT NOT NULL>`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The `query_vector` can be any expression, for example a literal, a parameter or a property from the graph, which evaluates to a `VECTOR` or `LIST<INTEGER NOT NULL | FLOAT NOT NULL>`.
```

Author: Richard commented on the same thing so already addressed

> - The `query_vector` can be any expression, like for example a literal, a parameter or a property from the graph, which evaluates to a `VECTOR` or `LIST<INTEGER NOT NULL | FLOAT NOT NULL>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `query_vector` can be any expression, for example a literal, a parameter or a property. It evaluates to a `VECTOR` or `LIST<INTEGER NOT NULL | FLOAT NOT NULL>`.
```

Author: I agree about removing "like" and "from the graph" but I think "It evaluates" and ", which evaluates" has different meaning. 

I wanted to express that the expression must be one of the types `VECTOR` or `LIST<INTEGER NOT NULL | FLOAT NOT NULL>` for it to be valid. Maybe there is another rephrasing that is better, what do you think about something like

> The `query_vector` can be any expression that evaluates to a `VECTOR` or `LIST<INTEGER NOT NULL | FLOAT NOT NULL>`, for example a literal, a parameter or a property.

Author: ```suggestion
- The `query_vector` can be any expression that evaluates to a `VECTOR` or `LIST<INTEGER NOT NULL | FLOAT NOT NULL>`, for example a literal, a parameter or a property.
```

> The `SEARCH` clause returns a neighborhood of nodes or relationships based on the similarity between the `query_vector` and the property of those nodes or relationships which the vector index is on.

Reviewer: what does it mean when a vector is on nodes or relationships?
defined on? based upon?

Author: It is not the vector but the vector index which is on nodes or relationship, it means kind of the nodes which are in included in the index if it is a node index or relationships that are included in the index if it is a relationship index. Not sure how to phrase that...

Reviewer: maybe "The `SEARCH` clause returns a neighborhood of nodes or relationships based on the similarity between the `query_vector` and the corresponding property of those nodes or relationships." ?

Author: That works I think, it is clear from other parts of the text which property it has to be exactly.  I'll add it as a suggestion and commit it.

```suggestion
The `SEARCH` clause returns a neighborhood of nodes or relationships based on the similarity between the `query_vector` the corresponding property of those nodes or relationships.
```

> - The optional `WHERE` subclause is used to do vector search with filters and is a restricted version of the normal Cypher xref::clauses/where.adoc[`WHERE` clause].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The optional `WHERE` subclause is used to describe a vector search with filters, where a filter is applied within the vector index, and is a restricted version of the normal Cypher xref::clauses/where.adoc[`WHERE` clause].
```

For more information, see xref::clauses/search.adoc#vector-search-filtering-predicates[Predicates for vector search with filters].

> - The `limit` refers to the number of approximate nearest neighbor nodes or relationships to return from the `SEARCH` clause.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The `LIMIT` clause sets the number of approximate nearest neighbor nodes or relationships returned by the `SEARCH` clause.
```

> The `limit` must be of type `INTEGER NOT NULL` and in the interval `0 \<= limit \<= 2147483647` footnote:[2147483647 is the `Integer.MAX_VALUE` from Java].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `top_k` must be of type `INTEGER NOT NULL` and in the interval `0 \<= top_k \<= 2147483647` footnote:[2147483647 is the `Integer.MAX_VALUE` from Java].
```

- The optional `SCORE` subclause makes the `SEARCH` clause return the similarity score for each node or relationship in addition to the node or relationship itself.
In the result, the column for the similarity scores will be called `score_alias`.

> - The `SEARCH` clause puts some restrictions on what pattern the enclosing `MATCH` or `OPTIONAL MATCH` clause is allowed to have.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `SEARCH` clause puts some restrictions on which pattern the enclosing `MATCH` or `OPTIONAL MATCH` clause is allowed to have.
```

For more information, see xref::clauses/search.adoc#limitations[Limitations of the `SEARCH` clause].

[[search-example-graph]]
== Example graph and vector index

The following graph is used for the examples below:

// TODO insert an example svg graph

To recreate the graph, run the following query in an empty Neo4j database:

[source, cypher, role=test-setup]
----

> CREATE (:Movie {title: 'Aladdin', releaseYear: date('1992'), rating: 8.0}),

Reviewer 2: It bothers me a little that the releaseYear is a full date and not just the year (e.g releaseYear.year sounds strange to me), can we not find the actual release dates? :)

       (:Movie:Favorite {title: 'Frozen', embedding: [1, 3, 3], releaseDate: date('2013-11-10'), rating: 7.4}),
       (:Movie {title: 'Lilo & Stitch', embedding: vector([1, 1, 3], 3, INTEGER), releaseDate: date('2002-06-16'), rating: 7.4}),
       (:Movie:Favorite {title: 'Lion King', embedding: vector([2, 5, 2], 3, INTEGER), releaseDate: date('1994-06-12'), rating: 8.5}),
       (:Movie:Favorite {title: 'Mulan', embedding: [2, 3, 3], releaseDate: date('1998-06-05'), rating: 7.7}),
       (:Movie {title: 'Snow White', embedding: vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER), releaseDate: date('1937-12-21'), rating: 7.6})
----

Each node in the example graph represents a movie with properties for its title, release date and rating.
The majority of the nodes also have a `VECTOR` property called `embedding`, which is a vector representation of the plot of the movie.
In a real-world example, these vector embeddings would typically be generated by a proprietary or open source embedding generator and have a dimension of for example 768 or 1536, but for simplicity this example dataset uses vector embeddings of dimension 3.

> The examples use a vector index named `moviePlots` on the `embedding` property and with the `releaseDate` and `rating` as additional properties for filtering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The examples use a vector index named `moviePlots` on the `embedding` property and `releaseDate` and `rating` as additional properties for filtering.
```

Such a vector index can be created with the following Cypher query:

[source, cypher, role=test-setup]
----
CREATE VECTOR INDEX moviePlots IF NOT EXISTS
FOR (m:Movie) ON m.embedding
WITH [m.releaseYear, m.rating]
OPTIONS {
  indexConfig: {
    `vector.similarity_function`: 'cosine',
    `vector.dimensions`: 3,
    `vector.quantization.enabled`: false
  }
}
----

> For more information about creation of vector indexes, see xref::indexes/semantic-indexes/vector-indexes.adoc#create-vector-index[Create vector indexes].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information about the creation of vector indexes, see xref::indexes/semantic-indexes/vector-indexes.adoc#create-vector-index[Create vector indexes].
```

== Basic vector search

=== Find the most similar nodes
In our example dataset, the movie with the title `Snow White` has the embedding `vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)`.
To find the 4 most similar movies to `Snow White`, you can run several different Cypher queries with the `SEARCH` clause.

> .Using a vector literal as query vector

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Using a vector literal as the query vector
```

// tag::clauses_search_vector_literal[]
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title
----
// end::clauses_search_vector_literal[]

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
|===
| title

| "Snow White"
| "Cinderella"
| "Frozen"
| "Mulan"

1+|Rows: 4
|===

> .Using a list literal as query vector

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Using a list literal as the query vector
```

> To find the 4 most similar movies to `Snow White`, you can run several different Cypher queries with the `SEARCH` clause.
> 
> .Using a vector literal as the query vector
> // tag::clauses_search_vector_literal[]
> [source, cypher]
> ----
> MATCH (movie:Movie)
>   SEARCH movie IN (
>     VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
>     FOR vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
>     LIMIT 4
>   )
> RETURN movie.title AS title
> ----
> // end::clauses_search_vector_literal[]
> 
> .Result
> [role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
> |===
> | title
> 
> | "Snow White"
> | "Cinderella"
> | "Frozen"
> | "Mulan"
> 
> 1+|Rows: 4
> |===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Using a vector literal as the query vector
====
.Query
// tag::clauses_search_vector_literal[]
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title
----
// end::clauses_search_vector_literal[]

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
|===
| title

| "Snow White"
| "Cinderella"
| "Frozen"
| "Mulan"

1+|Rows: 4
|===
====
```

Reviewer: my attempt to add visual structure like we have in LOAD CSV

<img width="666" height="922" alt="Screenshot from 2026-02-02 09-39-36" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0f5adfc6-d48e-485d-b4b5-bb8940bc24ef" />

> |===
> 
> .Using a list literal as the query vector
> // tag::clauses_search_list_literal[]
> [source, cypher]
> ----
> MATCH (movie:Movie)
>   SEARCH movie IN (
>     VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
>     FOR [1, 2, 3]
>     LIMIT 4
>   )
> RETURN movie.title AS title
> ----
> // end::clauses_search_list_literal[]
> 
> .Result
> [role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
> |===
> | title
> 
> | "Snow White"
> | "Cinderella"
> | "Frozen"
> | "Mulan"
> 
> 1+|Rows: 4
> |===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Using a list literal as the query vector
====
.Query
// tag::clauses_search_list_literal[]
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR [1, 2, 3]
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title
----
// end::clauses_search_list_literal[]

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
|===
| title

| "Snow White"
| "Cinderella"
| "Frozen"
| "Mulan"

1+|Rows: 4
|===
====
```

.Parameters
[source, parameters]
----
{
  "snowWhiteEmbedding": vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
}
----

> .Using a vector parameter as query vector

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Using a vector parameter as the query vector
```

// tag::clauses_search_vector_parameter[]
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR $snowWhiteEmbedding
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title
----
// end::clauses_search_vector_parameter[]

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
|===
| title

| "Snow White"
| "Cinderella"
| "Frozen"
| "Mulan"

1+|Rows: 4
|===

> .Using a property as query vector

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Using a property as the query vector
```

> .Parameters
> [source, parameters]
> ----
> {
>   "snowWhiteEmbedding": vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
> }
> ----
> 
> .Using a vector parameter as the query vector
> // tag::clauses_search_vector_parameter[]
> [source, cypher]
> ----
> MATCH (movie:Movie)
>   SEARCH movie IN (
>     VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
>     FOR $snowWhiteEmbedding
>     LIMIT 4
>   )
> RETURN movie.title AS title
> ----
> // end::clauses_search_vector_parameter[]
> 
> .Result
> [role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
> |===
> | title
> 
> | "Snow White"
> | "Cinderella"
> | "Frozen"
> | "Mulan"
> 
> 1+|Rows: 4
> |===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Using a vector parameter as the query vector
====
.Parameters
[source, parameters]
----
{
  "snowWhiteEmbedding": vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
}
----

.Query
// tag::clauses_search_vector_parameter[]
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR $snowWhiteEmbedding
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title
----
// end::clauses_search_vector_parameter[]

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
|===
| title

| "Snow White"
| "Cinderella"
| "Frozen"
| "Mulan"

1+|Rows: 4
|===
====
```

> |===
> 
> .Using a property as the query vector
> // tag::clauses_search_vector_from_graph[]
> [source, cypher]
> ----
> MATCH (snowWhite:Movie {title: 'Snow White'})
> MATCH (movie:Movie)
>   SEARCH movie IN (
>     VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
>     FOR snowWhite.embedding
>     LIMIT 4
>   )
> RETURN movie.title AS title
> ----
> // end::clauses_search_vector_from_graph[]
> 
> .Result
> [role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
> |===
> | title
> 
> | "Snow White"
> | "Cinderella"
> | "Frozen"
> | "Mulan"
> 
> 1+|Rows: 4
> |===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Using a property as the query vector
====
.Query
// tag::clauses_search_vector_from_graph[]
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (snowWhite:Movie {title: 'Snow White'})
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR snowWhite.embedding
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title
----
// end::clauses_search_vector_from_graph[]

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
|===
| title

| "Snow White"
| "Cinderella"
| "Frozen"
| "Mulan"

1+|Rows: 4
|===
====
```

> All the four queries above return the same result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All four queries above return the same result.
```

> The movie nodes are returned from the `SEARCH` clause in decreasing similarity order, meaning that `Snow White` (naturally) is the most similar movie to itself, while `Mulan` is the fourth most similar movie to `Snow White`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The movie nodes are returned in decreasing similarity order.
`Snow White` is the most similar movie to itself, while `Mulan` is the fourth most similar movie to `Snow White`.
```

> The movies `Lilo & Stitch` and `Lion King` is not returned as they are not among the top 4 most similar movies, while the movie `Aladdin` does not have an `embedding` property and is therefore not considered by the vector index at all.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The movies `Lilo & Stitch` and `Lion King` are not returned as they are not among the top 4 most similar movies, while the movie `Aladdin` does not have an `embedding` property and is therefore not considered by the vector index at all.
```

[NOTE]
The label predicate `:Movie` in the `MATCH` patterns above is not strictly required.

> As the vector index only contains nodes with label `:Movie`, the `SEARCH` clause will add this predicate implicitly either way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
The label predicate `:Movie` in the `MATCH` patterns above is not strictly required.
As the vector index only contains nodes with label `:Movie`, the `SEARCH` clause adds this predicate implicitly.
====
```

=== Find the most similar nodes with score

> To return the 4 most similar movies to `Snow White` together with their similarity score, you can include the optional `SCORE` subclause in the `SEARCH` clause.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To return the four most similar movies to `Snow White` together with their similarity score, you can include the optional `SCORE` subclause in the `SEARCH` clause.
```

> // tag::clauses_search_score[]
> [source, cypher]
> ----
> MATCH (snowWhite:Movie {title: 'Snow White'})
> MATCH (movie:Movie)
>   SEARCH movie IN (
>     VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
>     FOR snowWhite.embedding
>     LIMIT 4
>   ) SCORE AS similarityScore
> RETURN movie.title AS title, similarityScore
> ----
> // end::clauses_search_score[]
> 
> .Result
> [role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="2*<m"]
> |===
> | title | similarityScore
> 
> | "Snow White" | 1.0
> | "Cinderella" | 0.9979352951049805
> | "Frozen" | 0.9905114769935608
> | "Mulan" | 0.9843324422836304
> 
> 2+|Rows: 4
> |===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Adding the similarity score to the output
====
.Query
// tag::clauses_search_score[]
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (snowWhite:Movie {title: 'Snow White'})
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR snowWhite.embedding
    LIMIT 4
  ) SCORE AS similarityScore
RETURN movie.title AS title, similarityScore
----
// end::clauses_search_score[]

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="2*<m"]
|===
| title | similarityScore

| "Snow White" | 1.0
| "Cinderella" | 0.9979352951049805
| "Frozen" | 0.9905114769935608
| "Mulan" | 0.9843324422836304

2+|Rows: 4
|===
====
```

> The similarity scores have type `FLOAT NOT NULL` and are bounded between `0.0` and `1.0`, where the closer to `1.0` the score is, the more similar the indexed `embedding` property is to the query vector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarity scores have type `FLOAT NOT NULL` and are bounded between `0.0` and `1.0`.
The closer to `1.0` the score is, the more similar the indexed `embedding` property is to the query vector.
```

> The movie `Snow White` has a similarity score 1.0 as its `embedding` property is identical to the query vector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The movie `Snow White` has a similarity score of `1.0` as its `embedding` property is identical to the query vector.
```

> The similarity scores are calculated using the similarity function that was chosen when the vector index was created, by default cosine similarity is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarity scores are calculated using the similarity function that was chosen when the vector index was created, the default is cosine similarity.
```

> For more information on the similarity functions, see xref::indexes/semantic-indexes/vector-indexes.adoc#similarity-functions[Cosine and Euclidean similarity functions].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on similarity functions, see xref::indexes/semantic-indexes/vector-indexes.adoc#similarity-functions[Cosine and Euclidean similarity functions].
```

=== Additional predicates in the MATCH pattern

> The pattern in the `MATCH` or `OPTIONAL MATCH` can have label and property predicates on the node or relationship with the binding variable.
> 
> .Finding the most similar movies with an extra label predicate
> // tag::clauses_search_label_predicate[]
> [source, cypher]
> ----
> MATCH (movie:Movie&Favorite)
>   SEARCH movie IN (
>     VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
>     FOR vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
>     LIMIT 4
>   )
> RETURN movie.title AS title
> ----
> // end::clauses_label_predicate[]
> 
> .Result
> [role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
> |===
> | title
> 
> | "Frozen"
> | "Mulan"
> 
> 1+|Rows: 2
> |===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Finding the most similar movies with an extra label predicate
====
.Query
// tag::clauses_search_label_predicate[]
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie&Favorite)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title
----
// end::clauses_label_predicate[]

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
|===
| title

| "Frozen"
| "Mulan"

1+|Rows: 2
|===
====
```

[NOTE]
The label predicate acts as a post-filtering step to the vector search.

> Even if the movie node with the title `Lion King` also has the label `Favorite`, it will not be returned as it is not among the 4 most similar nodes to the query vector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
The label predicate acts as a post-filtering step to the vector search.
Even if the movie node with the title `Lion King` also has the label `Favorite`, it is not returned as it is not among the four most similar nodes to the query vector.
====
```

> Even if the movie node with the title `Lion King` also has the label `Favorite`, it will not be returned as it is not among the 4 most similar nodes to the query vector.
> 
> .Finding the most similar movies with an extra property predicate
> // tag::clauses_search_property_predicate[]
> [source, cypher]
> ----
> MATCH (movie:Movie {releaseDate: date('2013-11-10')})
>   SEARCH movie IN (
>     VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
>     FOR vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
>     LIMIT 4
>   )
> RETURN movie.title AS title
> ----
> // end::clauses_property_predicate[]
> 
> .Result
> [role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
> |===
> | title
> 
> | "Frozen"
> 
> 1+|Rows: 2
> |===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Finding the most similar movies with an extra property predicate
====
.Query
// tag::clauses_search_property_predicate[]
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie {releaseDate: date('2013-11-10')})
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title
----
// end::clauses_property_predicate[]

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
|===
| title

| "Frozen"

1+|Rows: 2
|===
====
```

[[vector-search-filtering]]
== Vector search with filters
A `MATCH` or `OPTIONAL MATCH` clause can have both a `WHERE` subclause and `SEARCH` subclause.

> Regardless of in which order they occur in the query, the `WHERE` clause will act as a post-filtering step to the vector search, further filtering down the results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regardless of their order, the `WHERE` clause will act as a post-filtering step to the vector search, further filtering down the results.
```

> To find the 4 most similar movies to `Snow White` and then filter down the result to only movies which was released after 1990, either of the below queries can be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To find the 4 most similar movies to `Snow White` and then filter down the result to only movies which were released after 1990, either of the below queries can be used.
```

> To find the 4 most similar movies to `Snow White` and then filter down the result to only movies which were released after 1990, either of the below queries can be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Either of the queries below find the four most similar movies to `Snow White` and then filter down the result to only movies which were released after 1990.
```

.WHERE followed by SEARCH
// tag::clauses_search_where_search[]
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  WHERE movie.releaseDate > date('1990')
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
    LIMIT 4
  )

> RETURN movie.title AS title, movie.releaseDate.year AS year
> ----
> // end::clauses_search_where_search[]
> 
> .Result
> [role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="2*<m"]
> |===
> | title | year
> 
> | "Frozen" | 2013
> | "Mulan"  | 1998
> 
> 2+|Rows: 2
> |===
> 
> .SEARCH followed by WHERE
> // tag::clauses_search_search_where[]
> [source, cypher]
> ----
> MATCH (movie:Movie)
>   SEARCH movie IN (
>     VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
>     FOR vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
>     LIMIT 4
>   )
>   WHERE movie.releaseDate > date('1990')
> RETURN movie.title AS title, movie.releaseDate.year AS year
> ----
> // end::clauses_search_search_where[]
> 
> .Result
> [role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="2*<m"]
> |===
> | title | year
> 
> | "Frozen" | 2013
> | "Mulan"  | 1998
> 
> 2+|Rows: 2
> |===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.The order of WHERE and SEARCH does not affect the result
====
.WHERE followed by SEARCH
// tag::clauses_search_where_search[]
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  WHERE movie.releaseDate > date('1990')
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title, movie.releaseDate.year AS year
----
// end::clauses_search_where_search[]

.SEARCH followed by WHERE
// tag::clauses_search_search_where[]
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
    LIMIT 4
  )
  WHERE movie.releaseDate > date('1990')
RETURN movie.title AS title, movie.releaseDate.year AS year
----
// end::clauses_search_search_where[]

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="2*<m"]
|===
| title | year

| "Frozen" | 2013
| "Mulan"  | 1998

2+|Rows: 2
|===
====
```

Reviewer: the result is the same, i collapsed this into one example

> Often, it is preferable to do the filtering _while_ performing the vector search, so called in-index filtering, instead of as a post-filtering step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Often, it is preferable to do the filtering _while_ performing the vector search, so called in-index filtering, instead of a post-filtering step.
```

Author: Not sure I agree with this one, are you sure it reads better with your suggested change?

Reviewer: let's leave it as is :+1:

This can be achieved with _vector search with filters_, where the `WHERE` is a subclause to the `SEARCH` clause instead of a subclause to the enclosing `MATCH` or `OPTIONAL MATCH` clause.

> To find the 4 most similar movies to `Snow White` which were released after 1990, use the following query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To find the four most similar movies to `Snow White` which were released after 1990 with a vector search with filters, use the following query.
```

> To find the 4 most similar movies to `Snow White` which were released after 1990, use the following query.
> 
> .Vector search with filter
> // tag::clauses_search_filter[]
> [source, cypher]
> ----
> MATCH (movie:Movie)
>   SEARCH movie IN (
>     VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
>     FOR vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
>     WHERE movie.releaseDate > date('1990')
>     LIMIT 4
>   )
> RETURN movie.title AS title, movie.releaseDate.year AS year
> ----
> // end::clauses_search_filter[]
> 
> .Result
> [role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="2*<m"]
> |===
> | title | year
> 
> | "Frozen"         | 2013
> | "Mulan"          | 1998
> | "Lilo & Stitch"  | 2002
> | "Lion King"      | 1994
> 
> 2+|Rows: 4
> |===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Vector search with filter
====
.Query
// tag::clauses_search_filter[]
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
    WHERE movie.releaseDate > date('1990')
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title, movie.releaseDate.year AS year
----
// end::clauses_search_filter[]

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="2*<m"]
|===
| title | year

| "Frozen"         | 2013
| "Mulan"          | 1998
| "Lilo & Stitch"  | 2002
| "Lion King"      | 1994

2+|Rows: 4
|===
====
```

> 
> [NOTE]
> By using vector search with filters, the vector search will continue until it has found the requested number of result that also fulfills the other predicates.
> By contrast, using a normal `WHERE` clause in the `MATCH` can lead to significant fewer results.
> Because of this, you might want to pick a higher `LIMIT` within the `SEARCH` clause and complement it with a lower `LIMIT` as part of the `RETURN`.
> This approach is called over-fetching.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
When using vector search with filters, the vector search continues until it has found the requested number of result that also fulfills the other predicates.
By contrast, using a normal `WHERE` clause in the `MATCH` can lead to significantly fewer results.
Because of this, you might want to set a higher `LIMIT` in the `SEARCH` clause and complement it with a lower `LIMIT` in the `RETURN`.
This approach is called over-fetching.
====
```

=== Combining vector search with filters and post-filtering

> Vector search with filters and a normal `WHERE` clause can also be combined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vector search with filters and a normal `WHERE` clause can be combined.
```

> The following query will find the 4 most similar movies to `Snow White` which were released after 1990, and then do post-filtering to discard any result with a rating worse than 7.5.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following query finds the four most similar movies to `Snow White` which were released after 1990, and then does post-filtering to discard any result with a rating worse than 7.5.
```

> The following query will find the 4 most similar movies to `Snow White` which were released after 1990, and then do post-filtering to discard any result with a rating worse than 7.5.
> 
> .Vector search with filter and `WHERE` clause
> // tag::clauses_search_filtering_where[]
> [source, cypher]
> ----
> MATCH (movie:Movie)
>   SEARCH movie IN (
>     VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
>     FOR vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
>     WHERE movie.releaseDate > date('1990')
>     LIMIT 4
>   )
>   WHERE movie.rating > 7.5
> RETURN movie.title AS title, movie.releaseDate.year AS year, movie.rating AS rating
> ----
> // end::clauses_search_filtering_where[]
> 
> .Result
> [role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="3*<m"]
> |===
> | title | year | rating
> 
> | "Mulan"      | 1998 | 7.7
> | "Lion King"  | 1994 | 8.5
> 
> 3+|Rows: 2
> |===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Vector search with filter and `WHERE` clause
====
.Query
// tag::clauses_search_filtering_where[]
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
    WHERE movie.releaseDate > date('1990')
    LIMIT 4
  )
  WHERE movie.rating > 7.5
RETURN movie.title AS title, movie.releaseDate.year AS year, movie.rating AS rating
----
// end::clauses_search_filtering_where[]

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="3*<m"]
|===
| title | year | rating

| "Mulan"      | 1998 | 7.7
| "Lion King"  | 1994 | 8.5

3+|Rows: 2
|===
====
```

[[vector-search-filtering-predicates]]
=== Predicates for vector search with filters
The optional `WHERE` subclause used to do _vector search with filters_ is a restricted version of the normal Cypher xref::clauses/where.adoc[`WHERE` clause] and only allows certain types of predicates.
The predicate must be a property predicate or several property predicates with `AND` between them.

.Vector search with filter with an AND predicate on same property
// tag::clauses_search_filter_and_same[]
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
    WHERE movie.releaseDate > date('1948') AND date('2010') > movie.releaseDate
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title, movie.releaseDate.year AS year
----
// end::clauses_search_filter_and_same[]

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="2*<m"]
|===
| title | year

| "Cinderella"    | 1950
| "Mulan"         | 1998
| "Lilo & Stitch" | 2002
| "Lion King"     | 1994

2+|Rows: 4

> |===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Vector search with filter with an AND predicate on the same property
====
.Query
// tag::clauses_search_filter_and_same[]
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
    WHERE movie.releaseDate > date('1948') AND date('2010') > movie.releaseDate
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title, movie.releaseDate.year AS year
----
// end::clauses_search_filter_and_same[]

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="2*<m"]
|===
| title | year

| "Cinderella"    | 1950
| "Mulan"         | 1998
| "Lilo & Stitch" | 2002
| "Lion King"     | 1994

2+|Rows: 4
|===
====
```

> 
> [TIP]
> The `WHERE` subclause in the query above can also be written as `WHERE date('1948') <  movie.releaseDate < date('2010')` .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[TIP]
====
The `WHERE` subclause in the query above can also be written as `WHERE date('1948') <  movie.releaseDate < date('2010')` .
====
```

> The `WHERE` subclause in the query above can also be written as `WHERE date('1948') <  movie.releaseDate < date('2010')` .
> 
> .Vector search with filter with an AND predicate on separate properties
> // tag::clauses_search_filter_and[]
> [source, cypher]
> ----
> MATCH (snowWhite:Movie {title:"Snow White"})
> MATCH (movie:Movie)
>   SEARCH movie IN (
>     VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
>     FOR snowWhite.embedding
>     WHERE movie.releaseDate < date('2000') AND movie.rating >= snowWhite.rating
>     LIMIT 4
>   )
> RETURN movie.title AS title, movie.releaseDate.year AS year, movie.rating AS rating
> ----
> // end::clauses_search_filter_and[]
> 
> .Result
> [role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="3*<m"]
> |===
> | title | year | rating
> 
> | "Snow White" | 1937 | 7.6
> | "Mulan"      | 1998 | 7.7
> | "Lion King"  | 1994 | 8.5
> 
> 3+|Rows: 4
> |===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Vector search with filter with an AND predicate on separate properties
====
.Query
// tag::clauses_search_filter_and[]
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (snowWhite:Movie {title:"Snow White"})
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR snowWhite.embedding
    WHERE movie.releaseDate < date('2000') AND movie.rating >= snowWhite.rating
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title, movie.releaseDate.year AS year, movie.rating AS rating
----
// end::clauses_search_filter_and[]

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="3*<m"]
|===
| title | year | rating

| "Snow White" | 1937 | 7.6
| "Mulan"      | 1998 | 7.7
| "Lion King"  | 1994 | 8.5

3+|Rows: 4
|===
====
```

> 
> [NOTE]
> If the `LIMIT` in the `SEARCH` clause is larger than the total number of indexed vectors fulfilling the predicate, the vector search will return fewer results.
> In the example above, only 3 nodes are returned despite the `LIMIT` being 4.
> Due to the approximate nature of vector search, this can also happen if the `LIMIT` is smaller than but close to the total number of indexed vectors fulfilling the predicate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
If the `LIMIT` in the `SEARCH` clause is larger than the total number of indexed vectors fulfilling the predicate, the vector search will return fewer results.
In the example above, only three nodes are returned despite the `LIMIT` being four.
Due to the approximate nature of vector search, this can also happen if the `LIMIT` is smaller than but close to the total number of indexed vectors fulfilling the predicate.
====
```

The variable in the property predicate must be the same as the binding variable in the `SEARCH` clause.
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
MATCH (m: Movie {name: "Snow White"})
MATCH (movie:Movie)

>   SEARCH movie IN (

Reviewer: not sure, but should the mismatch not be between the second MATCH and the SEARCH? (if so, it would have to be adjusted in the suggestion for the example block)

Author: The mismatch in this case is between this line and 3 lines further down where we do `WHERE m.rating > 8`, it is that `m` that needs to be `movie`

> [source, cypher, role=test-fail]
> ----
> MATCH (m: Movie {name: "Snow White"})
> MATCH (movie:Movie)
>   SEARCH movie IN (
>     VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
>     FOR vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
>     WHERE m.rating > 8
>     LIMIT 4
>   )
> RETURN movie.title AS title
> ----
> 
> .Error message
> [source, error]
> ----
> The variable `m` in a vector search filter property predicate must be the same as the search clause binding variable `movie`.
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Error: mismatch of a property predicate variable and a binding variable in the SEARCH clause
====
.Query
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
MATCH (m: Movie {name: "Snow White"})
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
    WHERE m.rating > 8
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title
----

.Error message
[source, error]
----
The variable `m` in a vector search filter property predicate must be the same as the search clause binding variable `movie`.
----
====
```

> All properties in the property predicate must have been added as additional properties for filtering when creating the vector index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All properties in the property predicate must have been added as additional properties for filtering when xref:#search-example-graph[creating the vector index].
```
link for clarity - that's where the example vector index is defined

> [source, cypher, role=test-fail]
> ----
> MATCH (movie:Movie)
>   SEARCH movie IN (
>     VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
>     FOR vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
>     WHERE movie.rating > 8 AND movie.title > "L"
>     LIMIT 4
>   )
> RETURN movie.title AS title, movie.rating AS rating
> ----
> 
> .Error message
> [source, error]
> ----
> 22ND3: The property `title` has not been added as an additional property for the vector index `moviePlots`.
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Error: a property of the property predicate wasn't defined as an additional property in the vector index
====
.Query 
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
    WHERE movie.rating > 8 AND movie.title > "L"
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title, movie.rating AS rating
----

.Error message
[source, error]
----
22ND3: The property `title` has not been added as an additional property for the vector index `moviePlots`.
----
====
```

> For further limitations on the `WHERE` predicate, which might be lifted in later versions of Neo4j, see xref::clauses/search.adoc#limitations-where[Limitations of the `WHERE` predicate].

Reviewer 2: I am not sure if we are meant to say things like this in the docs 🤷

Author: Good question, the first of these limitation will be lifted already in 2026.02 so we can guarantee that some of them will be lifted, but I also don't know how explicit we want to be about it. I'll keep this comment open to get the docs teams opinion also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For further limitations on the `WHERE` predicate, see xref::clauses/search.adoc#limitations-where[Limitations of the `WHERE` predicate].
```
let's leave it out for now :)

== More on vector search

> === Using a query vector with different dimension

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Using a query vector with different dimensions
```

If the query vector has a different dimension than the configured dimension of the vector index, the query will fail.

.Query vector with dimension 2
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR vector([1, 2], 2, INTEGER)
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title
----

.Error message
[source, error]
----

> Index query vector has a dimensionality of 2, but provided vector has 3.

Author: This error message is not good, we made a Linear issue for it here https://linear.app/neo4j/issue/SURF-589/clarify-dimensionality-mismatch-error-for-vector-queries. Will update it in docs to match what I implement there

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Error: query vector with only two dimensions when three are being used
====
.Query
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR vector([1, 2], 2, INTEGER)
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title
----

.Error message
[source, error]
----
Vector index 'moviePlots' has a configured dimensionality of 3, but the provided vector has dimension 2.
----
====
```

> 
> [NOTE]
> If the vector index has no configured dimension, the query will succeed.
> However, if there are no vectors in the index of the same dimension as the query vector, the result of the query will be empty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
If the vector index has no configured dimension, the query succeeds.
However, if there are no vectors in the index of the same dimension as the query vector, the result of the query will be empty.
====
```

=== Using a query vector which evaluates to null

> If the query vector evaluates to `null`, for example because it refers to a non-existing property, a `SEARCH` clause inside a `MATCH` will return no results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the query vector evaluates to `null`, for example because it refers to a non-existing property, a `SEARCH` clause inside a `MATCH` returns no results.
```

> // tag::clauses_search_null_match[]
> [source, cypher]
> ----
> MATCH (snowWhite:Movie {title: 'Snow White'})
> MATCH (movie:Movie)
>   SEARCH movie IN (
>     VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
>     FOR snowWhite.prop
>     LIMIT 4
>   )
> RETURN movie.title AS title
> ----
> // end::clauses_search_null_match[]
> 
> .Result
> [role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
> |===
> | title
> 1+|Rows: 0
> |===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.A query vector which evaluates to null
====
.Query
// tag::clauses_search_null_match[]
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (snowWhite:Movie {title: 'Snow White'})
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR snowWhite.prop
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title
----
// end::clauses_search_null_match[]

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
|===
| title
1+|Rows: 0
|===
====
```

> If the `SEARCH` clause with a query vector evaluating to `null` instead is in an `OPTIONAL MATCH` clause, it will return `null` as per regular `OPTIONAL MATCH` semantics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `SEARCH` clause with a query vector evaluating to `null` is instead in an `OPTIONAL MATCH` clause, it returns `null` as per regular `OPTIONAL MATCH` semantics.
```

> // tag::clauses_search_null_optional_match[]
> [source, cypher]
> ----
> MATCH (snowWhite:Movie {title: 'Snow White'})
> OPTIONAL MATCH (movie:Movie)
>   SEARCH movie IN (
>     VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
>     FOR snowWhite.prop
>     LIMIT 4
>   )
> RETURN movie.title AS title
> ----
> // end::clauses_search_null_optional_match[]
> 
> .Result
> [role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
> |===
> | title
> |null
> 1+|Rows: 1
> |===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.A query vector which evaluates to null as per regular OPTIONAL MATCH semantics
====
.Query
// tag::clauses_search_null_optional_match[]
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (snowWhite:Movie {title: 'Snow White'})
OPTIONAL MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR snowWhite.prop
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title
----
// end::clauses_search_null_optional_match[]

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
|===
| title
|null
1+|Rows: 1
|===
====
```

=== Using a binding variable which is not from the enclosing clause

The binding variable in a `SEARCH` clause must be a node or relationship variable from the pattern of the enclosing `MATCH` or `OPTIONAL MATCH` clause.
Trying to refer to a variable from an earlier clause in the query or introducing a new variable will cause the query to fail.

.Binding variable from earlier clause
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie)
MATCH (m: Movie {name: 'Snow White'})
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR m.embedding
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title
----

.Error message
[source, error]
----
The variable `movie` in SEARCH must reference a variable from the same MATCH statement.

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Error: binding variable from earlier clause
====
.Query
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie)
MATCH (m: Movie {name: 'Snow White'})
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR m.embedding
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title
----

.Error message
[source, error]
----
The variable `movie` in SEARCH must reference a variable from the same MATCH statement.
----
====
```

.Binding variable not previously defined
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH node IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title
----

.Error message
[source, error]
----
Variable `node` not defined

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Error: binding variable not previously defined
====
.Query
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH node IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR vector([1, 2, 3], 3, INTEGER)
    LIMIT 4
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title
----

.Error message
[source, error]
----
Variable `node` not defined
----
====
```

[[limitations]]
== Limitations of the SEARCH clause

> The tables below list some past and current limitations of the SEARCH clause, out of which many are likely to be lifted in a later Neo4j release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The tables below list some past and current limitations of the `SEARCH` clause, out of which many are likely to be lifted in a later Neo4j release.
```

> The tables below list some past and current limitations of the `SEARCH` clause, out of which many are likely to be lifted in a later Neo4j release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tables below list some past and current limitations of the `SEARCH` clause.
```

> If applicable, the version in which the limitation was lifted is also listed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If applicable, the version which lifted the limitation is also listed.
```

> The `SEARCH` clause puts some restrictions on what pattern the enclosing `MATCH` or `OPTIONAL MATCH` clause is allowed to have.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `SEARCH` clause puts restrictions on the pattern of the enclosing `MATCH` or `OPTIONAL MATCH` clause.
```

.Limitations of the `MATCH` or `OPTIONAL MATCH` pattern
[%header,cols="3a,4a,a"]
|===
| Limitation | Disallowed example |  Lifted in
| The pattern cannot have more than one bound variable.
|`MATCH (movie:Movie)-[r]\->()`
|

| The pattern cannot have predicates on other elements than the bound variable.
| `MATCH (:Actor)-[]\->(m:Movie)`
|

| The pattern cannot have a length longer than one relationship hop.
| `MATCH ()-[r: KNOWS]\->()-[]\->()`

`MATCH (movie:Movie)-[*1..3]\->()`
|

| The pattern cannot have multiple pattern parts.
| `MATCH (movie:Movie), ()`
|

> | The pattern cannot have a path selector.

Reviewer 2: I don't remember how path selectors work, but isn't there a default one? wouldn't that one work? (I might be confused with path modes)

Author: Ah yes, I looked at the semantic checking now and we do allow ALL, which I assume it the default. I will update this to clarify that

| `WHERE movie.rating IN [7, 7.5, 8]`
|

| The predicate cannot include a xref::expressions/predicates/string-operators.adoc[string operator].
| `WHERE movie.rating STARTS WITH '8'`
|

| The predicate cannot include a xref::expressions/predicates/type-predicate-expressions.adoc[type predicate expression].
| `WHERE movie.rating IS +::+ FLOAT`
|

| The expression in the predicate cannot be of type `POINT`.
| `WHERE movie.rating < point({x:2.3, y:4.5})`
|

| The expression in the predicate cannot be of type `VECTOR`.
| `WHERE movie.rating < vector([8.2, 8.5], 2, FLOAT)`
|

| The expression in the predicate cannot be of type `LIST`.
| `WHERE movie.rating < [8, 8.5]`
|

| The expression in the predicate is not allowed to reference the binding variable.
| `WHERE movie.rating > movie.title`
|

| The predicate cannot contain multiple property predicates on the same property in the same direction.
| `WHERE movie.rating > 8.2 AND movie.rating >= 8.5`
|

| The predicate cannot contain multiple property predicates on the same property where one is an equality and one is a range predicate.
| `WHERE movie.rating > 8.2 AND movie.rating = 8.5`
|
|===

> .Other limitations of the SEARCH clause

Reviewer: this table has one entry and it is a query with an error message -

if you're ok with it, i'd say let's make it an example like the ones we have in the rest of this page. there's nothing for the "lifted in" column as of yet either.

Author: It has two entries right? The second one with the error messages will potentially be allowed in Cypher in the future, but it is not certain. I'm happy to change it if you wish but not sure exactly how you wanted to do it

Reviewer: true
looking at it in the local preview, it's not too bad
let's leave it as is

- The optional `WHERE` subclause is used to do vector search with filters and is a restricted version of the normal Cypher xref::clauses/where.adoc[`WHERE` clause].
For more information, see xref::clauses/search.adoc#vector-search-filtering-predicates[Predicates for vector search with filters].

- The `limit` refers to the number of approximate nearest neighbor nodes or relationships to return from the `SEARCH` clause.
The `limit` must be of type `INTEGER NOT NULL` and in the interval `0 \<= limit \<= 2147483647` footnote:[2147483647 is the `Integer.MAX_VALUE` from Java].

- The optional `SCORE` subclause makes the `SEARCH` clause return the similarity score for each node or relationship in addition to the node or relationship itself.
In the result, the column for the similarity scores will be called `score_alias`.

- The `SEARCH` clause puts some restrictions on which pattern the enclosing `MATCH` or `OPTIONAL MATCH` clause is allowed to have.
For more information, see xref::clauses/search.adoc#limitations[Limitations of the `SEARCH` clause].

[[search-example-graph]]
== Example graph and vector index

The following graph is used for the examples below:

> // TODO insert an example svg graph

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image::graph-search-clause.svg[Example graph with Person nodes connecting via knows relationships,width=700,role=popup]
```

We will address them to the best of our ability.
Please include the term *Vector search* in the title of your issue so we can identify it more easily. +
Customers with active contracts may contact Neo4j Support through the standard support channels.
Please note that any cases related to the Preview feature will be classified as Severity 4 by default, in accordance with the link:https://neo4j.com/terms/support-terms/[Support Terms].
====

The `SEARCH` clause is not a clause in its own right -- rather, it is a subclause used within xref:clauses/match.adoc[`MATCH`] and xref:clauses/optional-match.adoc[`OPTIONAL MATCH`] clauses to add constraints on their pattern based on approximate nearest neighbor (ANN) vector search.
In order to use the `SEARCH` clause, you must first have xref::indexes/semantic-indexes/vector-indexes.adoc#create-vector-index[created a vector index].

== SEARCH clause syntax

The `SEARCH` clause has the following syntax
[source, syntax]
----
[OPTIONAL] MATCH pattern
  SEARCH binding_variable IN (
    VECTOR INDEX index_name
    FOR query_vector
    [WHERE ...]
    LIMIT top_k
  ) [SCORE AS score_alias]
----

> The `SEARCH` clause constraints the `pattern` from the enclosing `MATCH` or `OPTIONAL MATCH`, by only returning nodes or relationships, included in the results of the ANN vector search as described by the `SEARCH` clause.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `SEARCH` clause constrains the `pattern` from the enclosing `MATCH` or `OPTIONAL MATCH`, by only returning nodes or relationships included in the results of the ANN vector search as described by the `SEARCH` clause.
```

Below follows a short description of the different parts of the syntax:

- The `binding_variable` must be a node or relationship variable from the `pattern` of the enclosing `MATCH` or `OPTIONAL MATCH` clause.

- The `index_name` must be an identifier that matches the name of an existing vector index in the Neo4j database.
The vector index must be a node vector index if the `binding_variable` refers to a node and a relationship vector index if the `binding_variable` refers to a relationship.

- The `query_vector` can be any expression that evaluates to a `VECTOR` or `LIST<INTEGER NOT NULL | FLOAT NOT NULL>`, for example a literal, a parameter or a property.
The `SEARCH` clause returns a neighborhood of nodes or relationships based on the similarity between the `query_vector` the corresponding property of those nodes or relationships.

> - The optional `WHERE` subclause is used to describe a vector search with filters, where a filter is applied within the vector index, and is a restricted version of the normal Cypher xref::clauses/where.adoc[`WHERE` clause].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The optional `WHERE` subclause applies a filter to the vector index, and is a restricted version of the normal Cypher xref::clauses/where.adoc[`WHERE` clause].
```

====

.Preview Feature
[IMPORTANT]
====
The *vector search feature is offered AS-IS* as described in your agreement with Neo4j and should only be used for internal development purposes.
When this feature becomes generally available, you will need to upgrade to the latest Neo4j version (which may require downtime) to use the feature for non-development purposes.

Vector search is *enabled by default*, both in Aura and self-managed Neo4j.
During the Preview period, if you have any feedback, comments, or encounter any issues, we welcome them in our link:https://github.com/neo4j/neo4j/issues[public GitHub repository].
We will address them to the best of our ability.
Please include the term *Vector search* in the title of your issue so we can identify it more easily. +
Customers with active contracts may contact Neo4j Support through the standard support channels.
Please note that any cases related to the Preview feature will be classified as Severity 4 by default, in accordance with the link:https://neo4j.com/terms/support-terms/[Support Terms].

> ====

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
duplicate

The following graph is used for the examples below:

> image::graph-search-clause.svg[Example graph with Person nodes connecting via knows relationships,width=700,role=popup]

Author: @rsill-neo4j  I think you want to update the text in the square brackets to something more descriptive of this specific graph
